Thuja is a genus of coniferous trees in the Cupressaceae (cypress family). There are five 
species in the genus, two native to North America and three native to eastern Asia.The genus 
is monophyletic and sister to Thujopsis.

They are commonly known as arborvitaes,(from Latin for tree of life) thujas or cedars.

Thujas are evergreen trees growing from 10 to 200 feet (3.0 to 61.0 metres) tall, with 
stringy-textured reddish-brown bark. The shoots are flat, with side shoots only in a single 
plane. The leaves are scale-like 1–10 mm long, except young seedlings in their first year, 
which have needle-like leaves. The scale leaves are arranged in alternating decussate pairs 
in four rows along the twigs. The male cones are small, inconspicuous, and are located at 
the tips of the twigs. The female cones start out similarly inconspicuous, but grow to about 
1–2 cm long at maturity when 6–8 months old; they have 6-12 overlapping, thin, leathery 
scales, each scale bearing 1–2 small seeds with a pair of narrow lateral wings.

The five species in the genus Thuja are small to large evergreen trees with flattened branchlets. 
The leaves are arranged in flattened fan shaped groupings with resin-glands, and oppositely grouped 
in 4 ranks. The mature leaves are different from younger leaves, with those on larger branchlets 
having sharp, erect, free apices. The leaves on flattened lateral branchlets are crowded into 
appressed groups and scale-like and the lateral pairs are keeled. With the exception of 
T. plicata, the lateral leaves are shorter than the facial leaves (Li et al. 2005). The 
solitary flowers are produced terminally. Pollen cones with 2-6 pairs of 2-4 pollen sacked 
sporophylls. Seed cones ellipsoid, typically 9-14mm long, they mature and open the first year. 
The thin woody cone scales number from 4-6 pairs and are persistent and overlapping, with an 
oblong shape, they are also basifixed. The central 2-3 pairs of cone scales are fertile. The 
seed cones produce 1 to 3 seeds per scale, the seeds are lenticular in shape and equally 2 
winged. Seedlings produce 2 cotyledons.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
Division:	Pinophyta
Class:	Pinopsida
Order:	Pinales
Family:	Cupressaceae
Subfamily:	Cupressoideae[1]
Genus:	Thuja