Tsuga (the name of Tsuga sieboldii) is a genus of conifers in the pine family Pinaceae. The 
common name hemlock is derived from a perceived similarity in the smell of its crushed foliage 
to that of the unrelated plant poison hemlock. Unlike the latter, Tsuga species are not poisonous.

Eight to ten species are within the genus (depending on the authority), with four species 
occurring in North America and four to six in eastern Asia.

They are medium-sized to large evergreen trees, ranging from 10–60 m (33–197 ft) tall, with 
a conical to irregular crown, the latter occurring especially in some of the Asian species. 
The leading shoots generally droop. The bark is scaly and commonly deeply furrowed, with 
the colour ranging from grey to brown. The branches stem horizontally from the trunk and 
are usually arranged in flattened sprays that bend downward towards their tips. Short spur 
shoots, which are present in many gymnosperms, are weakly to moderately developed. The young 
twigs, as well as the distal portions of stem, are flexible and often pendent. The stems are 
rough due to pulvini that persist after the leaves fall. The winter buds are ovoid or globose, 
usually rounded at the apex and not resinous. The leaves are flattened to slightly angular and 
range from 5–35 mm long and 1–3 mm broad. They are borne singly and are arranged spirally on 
the stem; the leaf bases are twisted so the leaves lie flat either side of the stem or more 
rarely radially. Towards the base, the leaves narrow abruptly to a petiole set on a 
forward-angled pulvinus. The petiole is twisted at the base so it is almost parallel with the stem. 
The leaf apex is either notched, rounded, or acute. The undersides have two white stomatal bands 
(in T. mertensiana they are inconspicuous) separated by an elevated midvein. The upper surface of 
the leaves lack stomata, except in T. mertensiana. They have one resin canal that is present 
beneath the single vascular bundle.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
Division:	Pinophyta
Class:	Pinopsida
Order:	Pinales
Family:	Pinaceae
Genus:	Tsuga
Carrière