Acer /ˈeɪsər/ is a genus of trees or shrubs commonly known as maple. There are approximately 
128 species, most of which are native to Asia,[2] with a number also appearing in Europe, 
northern Africa, and North America. Only one species, Acer laurinum, extends to the Southern 
Hemisphere.[3] The type species of the genus is the sycamore maple, Acer pseudoplatanus, 
the most common maple species in Europe.[4]

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Sapindales
Family:	Sapindaceae[1] (previously Aceraceae)
Subfamily:	Hippocastanoideae
Genus:	Acer

Most maples are trees growing to 10–45 m (33–148 ft) height. Others are shrubs less than 10 
meters tall with a number of small trunks originating at ground level. Most species are 
deciduous, and many are renowned for their autumn leaf colour, but a few in southern Asia 
and the Mediterranean region are evergreen. Most are shade-tolerant when young and are often 
riparian, understory, or pioneer species rather than climax overstory trees with a few 
exceptions such as Sugar Maple. Many of the root systems are typically dense and fibrous, 
inhibiting the growth of other vegetation underneath them. A few species, notably Acer 
cappadocicum, frequently produce root sprouts, which can develop into clonal colonies.

Maples are distinguished by opposite leaf arrangement. The leaves in most species are palmate 
veined and lobed, with 3 to 9 (rarely to 13) veins each leading to a lobe, one of which is 
central or apical. A small number of species differ in having palmate compound, pinnate 
compound, pinnate veined or unlobed leaves. Several species, including Acer griseum 
(Paperbark maple), Acer mandshuricum (Manchurian maple), Acer maximowiczianum (Nikko maple) 
and Acer triflorum (Three-flowered maple), have trifoliate leaves. One species, Acer negundo 
(Box-elder), has pinnately compound leaves that may be simply trifoliate or may have five, 
seven, or rarely nine leaflets. A few, such as Acer laevigatum (Nepal maple) and Acer 
carpinifolium (Hornbeam maple), have pinnately veined simple leaves.
