The pear is any of several tree and shrub species of genus Pyrus /ˈpaɪrəs/, in the family 
Rosaceae.
It is also the name of the pomaceous fruit of the trees. Several species of pear are valued 
for their edible fruit, while others are cultivated as ornamental trees.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Rosales
Family:	Rosaceae
Subfamily:	Amygdaloideae[1]
Tribe:	Maleae
Subtribe:	Malinae
Genus:	Pyrus

The pear is native to coastal and mildly temperate regions of the Old World, from western 
Europe and north Africa east right across Asia. It is a medium-sized tree, reaching 10–17 
metres (33–56 ft) tall, often with a tall, narrow crown; a few species are shrubby.
The leaves are alternately arranged, simple, 2–12 centimetres (0.79–4.72 in) long, glossy 
green on some species, densely silvery-hairy in some others; leaf shape varies from broad 
oval to narrow lanceolate. Most pears are deciduous, but one or two species in southeast 
Asia are evergreen. Most are cold-hardy, withstanding temperatures between −25 °C (−13 °F) 
and −40 °C (−40 °F) in winter, except for the evergreen species, which only tolerate 
temperatures down to about −15 °C (5 °F).The flowers are white, rarely tinted yellow or pink, 
2–4 centimetres (0.79–1.57 in) diameter, and have five petals.[3] Like that of the related 
apple, the pear fruit is a pome, in most wild species 1–4 centimetres (0.39–1.57 in) diameter, 
but in some cultivated forms up to 18 centimetres (7.1 in) long and 8 centimetres (3.1 in) 
broad; the shape varies in most species from oblate or globose, to the classic pyriform 
'pear-shape' of the European pear with an elongated basal portion and a bulbous end.
The fruit is composed of the receptacle or upper end of the flower-stalk (the so-called calyx tube) 
greatly dilated. Enclosed within its cellular flesh is the true fruit: five cartilaginous 
carpels, known colloquially as the "core". From the upper rim of the receptacle are given 
off the five sepals[vague], the five petals, and the very numerous stamens.Pears and apples 
cannot always be distinguished by the form of the fruit; some pears look very much like 
some apples, e.g. the nashi pear. One major difference is that the flesh of pear fruit 
contains stone cells (also called "grit").