Prunus cerasifera is a species of plum known by the common names cherry plum and myrobalan plum.
It is native to Europe[3][4] and Asia[2][5] and naturalized in scattered locations in North America.
Wild types are large shrubs or small trees reaching 6–15 m (20–50 feet) tall, with deciduous 
leaves 4–6 cm (1.6–2.4 inches) long. It is one of the first European trees to flower in spring, 
often starting in mid-February. The flowers are white and about 2 cm (0.8 inches) across, 
with five petals. The fruit is a drupe, 2–3 cm in diameter, and yellow or red. It is edible, 
and reaches maturity from early July to mid-September.

Cultivated cherry plums can have fruits, foliage, and flowers in any of several colors. 
Some varieties have sweet fruits that can be eaten fresh, while others are sour and better 
for making jam. Cherry plums are a key ingredient in Georgian cuisine where they are used 
to produce tkemali sauce, as well as a number of popular dishes, such as kharcho soup and 
chakapuli stew.
The cherry plum is a popular ornamental tree for garden and landscaping use, grown for its 
very early flowering. Numerous cultivars have been developed, many of them selected for 
purple foliage, such as 'Atropurpurea'.[9][10] These purple-foliage forms (often called 
purple-leaf plum), also have dark purple fruit, which make an attractive, intensely coloured 
jam. They can have white or pink flowers. The cultivar 'Thundercloud' has bright red foliage 
which darkens purple.[11] Others, such as 'Lindsayae', have green foliage. Some kinds of 
purple-leaf plums are used for bonsai[10] and other forms of living sculpture.

The variety 'Nigra' with black foliage and pink flowers, has gained the Royal Horticultural 
Society's Award of Garden Merit.

The cherry plum has been listed as one of the 38 plants that are used to prepare Bach flower 
remedies,[13] a kind of alternative medicine promoted for its effect on health. However, 
according to Cancer Research UK, "there is no scientific evidence to prove that flower 
remedies can control, cure or prevent any type of disease, including cancer".

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Rosales
Family:	Rosaceae
Genus:	Prunus
Subgenus:	Prunus
Section:	Prunus
Species:	P. cerasifera
Binomial name
Prunus cerasifera