Amelanchier (/æməˈlænʃɪər/ am-ə-lan-sheer),[2] also known as shadbush, shadwood or shadblow, 
serviceberry or sarvisberry, or just sarvis, juneberry, saskatoon, sugarplum or wild-plum,
and chuckley pear[4] is a genus of about 20 species of deciduous-leaved shrubs and small 
trees in the Rose family (Rosaceae).

Amelanchier is native to temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, growing primarily in 
early successional habitats. It is most diverse taxonomically in North America, especially 
in the northeastern United States and adjacent southeastern Canada, and at least one species 
is native to every U.S. state except Hawaii and to every Canadian province and territory. 
Two species also occur in Asia, and one in Europe. The taxonomic classification of shadbushes 
has long perplexed botanists, horticulturalists, and others, as suggested by the range in 
number of species recognized in the genus, from 6 to 33, in two recent publications.
A major source of complexity comes from the occurrence of hybridization, polyploidy, and 
apomixis (asexual seed production), making species difficult to characterize and identify.

The various species of Amelanchier grow to 0.2–20 m tall; some are small trees, some are 
multistemmed, clump-forming shrubs, and yet others form extensive low shrubby patches (clones).
The bark is gray or less often brown, and in tree species smooth or fissuring when older.
The leaves are deciduous, cauline, alternate, simple, lanceolate to elliptic to orbiculate, 
0.5–10 x 0.5–5.5 cm, thin to coriaceous, with surfaces above glabrous or densely tomentose 
at flowering, and glabrous or more or less hairy beneath at maturity. The inflorescences are 
terminal, with 1–20 flowers, erect or drooping, either in clusters of one to four flowers, 
or in racemes with 4–20 flowers. The flowers have five white (rarely somewhat pink, yellow, 
or streaked with red), linear to orbiculate petals, 2.6–25 mm long, with the petals in one 
species (A. nantucketensis) often andropetalous (bearing apical microsporangia adaxially). 
The flowers appear in early spring, "when the shad run" according to tradition (leading to 
names such as "shadbush"). The fruit is a berry-like pome, red to purple to nearly black 
at maturity, 5–15 mm diameter, insipid to delectably sweet, maturing in summer.[7]

Amelanchier plants are valued horticulturally, and their fruits are important to wildlife.


Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Rosales
Family:	Rosaceae
Subfamily:	Amygdaloideae[1]
Tribe:	Maleae
Subtribe:	Malinae
Genus:	Amelanchier
Medik.