Zelkova serrata is a species of flowering plant native to Japan, Korea, eastern China and Taiwan.
It is often grown as an ornamental tree, and used in bonsai.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Rosales
Family:	Ulmaceae
Genus:	Zelkova
Species:	Z. serrata
Binomial name
Zelkova serrata

Zelkova serrata is a medium-sized deciduous tree usually growing to 30 m (98 ft) tall. It is 
characterized by a short trunk dividing into many upright and erect spreading stems forming 
a broad, round-topped head. The tree grows rapidly when young though the growth rate slows 
to medium upon middle age and maturity.
It has alternately arranged leaves growing to 5 cm long and broad. The leaves themselves are 
simple and ovate to oblong-ovate with serrated or crenate margins, to which the tree owes 
its specific epithet serrata. The leaves are acuminate or apiculate, rounded or subcordate 
at the base, and contain 8-14 pairs of veins. The leaves are rough on top and glabrous or 
nearly glabrous on the underside. They are green to dark green in spring and throughout the 
summer, changing to yellows, oranges and reds in autumn. The petioles are 2–5 mm (1⁄16–3⁄16 in) 
long. Z. serrata develops monoecious flowers in spring with the leaves. Buds are ovoid, acutish, 
with many imbricate, dark brown scales.[5] They diverge at a 45 degree angle from the stem. 
The staminate flowers are shortly pedicellate and approximately 3mm in diameter, clustered 
in the axils of the lower leaves. The pistillate flowers are solitary or few in axils of 
the upper leaves, sessile and usually about 1.5 mm in diameter. The flowers are yellow-green, 
not showy, and occur in tight groups along new stems. They give rise to small, ovate, wingless 
drupes that ripen in late summer to autumn. The drupe is green maturing to brown, subsessile 
and 2.5 to 3.5 mm (3⁄32 to 1⁄8 in) in diameter.
To identify Zelkova serrata, one would look for a short main trunk, low branching and a 
vase-shaped habit. The twigs are slender with small, dark conical buds in a zigzag pattern. 
The branches are usually glabrous. The bark is grayish white to grayish brown and either 
smooth with lenticels or exfoliating in patches to reveal orange inner bark. The branchlets 
are brownish-purple to brown.