Populus tremuloides is a deciduous tree native to cooler areas of North America, one of several 
species referred to by the common name aspen. It is commonly called quaking aspen, trembling 
aspen,[1][2] American aspen,[2] Quakies,[1] mountain or golden aspen,[4] trembling poplar,
white poplar,[4] popple,[4] and even more names.[4] The trees have tall trunks, up to 25 meters 
(82 feet) tall, with smooth pale bark, scarred with black. The glossy green leaves, dull 
beneath, become golden to yellow, rarely red, in autumn. The species often propagates through 
its roots to form large groves originating from a shared system of rhizomes.

Populus tremuloides is the most widely distributed tree in North America, being found from 
Canada to central Mexico.[3][5] It is the defining species of the aspen parkland biome in 
the Prairie Provinces of Canada and extreme northwest Minnesota.

Quaking aspen is a tall, fast growing tree, usually 20–25 m (65–80 ft) at maturity, 
with a trunk 20 to 80 cm (8 inches to 2 feet 7 inches) in diameter; records are 36.5 m 
(119 ft 9 in) in height and 1.37 m (4 ft 6 in) in diameter.

The bark is relatively smooth, colored greenish-white to gray, and is marked by thick 
black horizontal scars and prominent black knots. Parallel vertical scars are tell-tale 
signs of elk, which strip off aspen bark with their front teeth.

The leaves on mature trees are nearly round, 4–8 centimeters (1 1⁄2–3 1⁄4 inches) in diameter 
with small rounded teeth, and a 3–7-centimeter (1 1⁄4–2 3⁄4-inch) long, flattened petiole. 
Young trees and root sprouts have much larger (10–20 centimeters, 4–8 in long) nearly triangular 
leaves.

Aspens are dioecious, with separate male and female clones. The flowers are catkins 4–6 
centimeters (1 1⁄2–2 1⁄4 in) long, produced in early spring before the leaves; The fruit is 
a 10-centimeter-long (4-inch) pendulous string of 6-millimeter (1⁄4-inch) capsules, each 
capsule containing about ten minute seeds embedded in cottony fluff, which aids wind 
dispersal of the seeds when they are mature in early summer.

The quaking aspen is the State Tree of Utah.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Malpighiales
Family:	Salicaceae
Genus:	Populus
Section:	Populus
Species:	P. tremuloides
Binomial name
Populus tremuloides