Beech (Fagus) is a genus of deciduous trees in the family Fagaceae, native to temperate Europe, 
Asia and North America. Recent classification systems of the genus recognize ten to thirteen 
species in two distinct subgenera, Engleriana and Fagus.[2][3] The Engleriana subgenus is 
found only in East Asia, and is notably distinct from the Fagus subgenus in that these beeches 
are low-branching trees, often made up of several major trunks with yellowish bark. Further 
differentiating characteristics include the whitish bloom on the underside of the leaves, 
the visible tertiary leaf veins, and a long, smooth cupule-peduncle. Fagus japonica, Fagus 
engleriana, and the species F. okamotoi, proposed by the botanist Chung-Fu Shen in 1992, 
comprise this subgenus.[3] The better known Fagus subgenus beeches are high-branching with 
tall, stout trunks and smooth silver-grey bark. This group includes Fagus sylvatica, Fagus 
grandifolia, Fagus crenata, Fagus lucida, Fagus longipetiolata, and Fagus hayatae.The 
classification of the European beech, Fagus sylvatica is complex, with a variety of different 
names proposed for different species and subspecies within this region (for example Fagus 
taurica, Fagus orientalis, and Fagus moesica[4]). Research suggests that beeches in Eurasia 
differentiated fairly late in evolutionary history, during the Miocene. The populations in 
this area represent a range of often overlapping morphotypes, though genetic analysis does 
not clearly support separate species.

Within its family, the Fagaceae, recent research has suggested that Fagus is the evolutionarily 
most basal group.[6] The southern beeches (Nothofagus genus) previously thought closely related 
to beeches, are now treated as members of a separate family, Nothofagaceae. They are found 
in Australia, New Zealand, New Guinea, New Caledonia, Argentina and Chile (principally Patagonia 
and Tierra del Fuego).

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Fagales
Family:	Fagaceae
Genus:	Fagus

