The Cupressaceae are a conifer family, the cypress family, with worldwide distribution. 
The family includes 27–30 genera (17 monotypic), which include the junipers and redwoods, 
with about 130–140 species in total. They are monoecious, subdioecious or (rarely) dioecious 
trees and shrubs 1–116 m (3 ft 3 in–380 ft 7 in) tall. The bark of mature trees is commonly 
orange- to red- brown and of stringy texture, often flaking or peeling in vertical strips, 
but smooth, scaly or hard and square-cracked in some species.

The leaves are arranged either spirally, in decussate pairs (opposite pairs, each pair at 
90° to the previous pair) or in decussate whorls of three or four, depending on the genus. 
On young plants, the leaves are needle-like, becoming small and scale-like on mature plants 
of many genera; some genera and species retain needle-like leaves throughout their lives. 
Old leaves are mostly not shed individually, but in small sprays of foliage (cladoptosis); 
exceptions are the leaves on shoots, which develop into branches, which eventually fall 
off individually when the bark starts to flake. Most are evergreen with the leaves persisting 
2–10 years, but three genera (Glyptostrobus, Metasequoia and Taxodium) are deciduous or 
include deciduous species.

The Cupressaceae are a widely distributed conifer family, with a near-global range in all 
continents except for Antarctica, stretching from 71°N in arctic Norway (Juniperus communis) 
south to 55°S in southernmost Chile (Pilgerodendron uviferum), while Juniperus indica reaches 
5200 m altitude in Tibet, the highest altitude reported for any woody plant. Most habitats 
on land are occupied, with the exceptions of polar tundra and tropical lowland rainforest 
(though several species are important components of temperate rainforests and tropical 
highland cloud forests); they are also rare in deserts, with only a few species able to 
tolerate severe drought, notably Cupressus dupreziana in the central Sahara. Despite the 
wide overall distribution, many genera and species show very restricted relictual distributions, 
and many are endangered species.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
Division:	Pinophyta
Class:	Pinopsida
Order:	Pinales
Family:	Cupressaceae
Bartlett[1]