Locust tree can mean:

Any of a number of tree species in the genera Gleditsia or Robinia, including:
Honey locust, (Gleditsia triacanthos), a leguminous tree with pods having a sweet, edible pulp
Black locust, (Robinia pseudoacacia), a leguminous tree with toxic pods
Water locust, (Gleditsia aquatica), a leguminous tree with one seed per pod


Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Fabales
Family:	Fabaceae
Subfamily:	Faboideae
Tribe:	Robinieae
Genus:	Robinia
Species:	R. pseudoacacia
Binomial name
Robinia pseudoacacia

Robinia pseudoacacia, commonly known in its native territory as black locust,is a medium-sized deciduous tree native to the southeastern United States, but it has been widely planted and naturalized elsewhere in temperate North America, Europe, Southern Africa and Asia and is considered an invasive species in some areas.Another common name is false acacia,a literal translation of the specific name (pseudo meaning fake or false and acacia referring to the genus of plants with the same name.) It was introduced into Britain in 1636.

Black locust reaches a typical height of 40–100 feet (12–30 m) with a diameter of 2–4 feet (0.61–1.22 m).[12] Exceptionally, it may grow up to 52 metres (171 ft) tall[13] and 1.6 metres(5.2 ft) diameter in very old trees. It is a very upright tree with a straight trunk and narrow crown which grows scraggly with age.[5] The dark blue-green compound leaves with a contrasting lighter underside give this tree a beautiful appearance in the wind and contribute to its grace. Black locust is a shade intolerant species[7] and therefore is typical of young woodlands disturbed areas where sunlight is plentiful and soil is dry, in this sense, black locust can often grow as a weed tree. It also often spreads by underground shoots or suckers which contribute to the weedy character of this species.[5] Young trees are often spiny, 
however, mature trees often lack spines. In the early summer black locust flowers; the flowers are large and appear in large, intensely fragrant (reminiscent of orange blossoms), clusters.The leaflets fold together in wet weather and at night (nyctinasty) as some change of position at night is a habit of the entire leguminous family. Although similar in general appearance to the honey locust, it lacks that tree’s characteristic long branched thorns on the trunk, instead having the pairs of short prickles at the base of each leaf; the leaflets are also much broader then honey locust. It may also resemble Styphnolobium japonicum which has smaller 
flower spikes and lacks spines.
