Prunus virginiana(Schubert Cherry), commonly called bitter-berry,chokecherry,Virginia bird cherry 
and western chokecherry (also black chokecherry for P. virginiana var. demissa), 
is a species of bird cherry (Prunus subgenus Padus) native to North America; the natural 
historic range of P. virginiana includes most of Canada (including Northwest Territory but 
excluding Yukon, Nunavut, and Labrador), most of the United States (including Alaska but 
excluding some states in the Southeast) and northern Mexico (Sonora, Chihuahua, Baja California, 
Durango, Zacatecas, Coahuila and Nuevo León).

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Rosales
Family:	Rosaceae
Genus:	Prunus
Subgenus:	Padus[1]
Species:	P. virginiana
Binomial name
Prunus virginiana

Description
Chokecherry is a suckering shrub or small tree growing to 4.9 m (16 ft 1 in) tall. The leaves 
are oval, 3.2–10.2 cm (1 1⁄4–4 1⁄32 in) long, with a coarsely serrated margin. The flowers 
are produced in racemes 38.1–76.2 cm (15–30 in) long in late spring (well after leaf emergence). 
The fruits are about 1 cm (3⁄8 in) in diameter, range in color from bright red to black, 
and possess a very astringent taste, being both somewhat sour and somewhat bitter. The very 
ripe "berries" (actually drupes) are dark in color and less astringent and more sweet than 
when red and unripe.

Prunus serotina(Black Cherry), commonly called black cherry, wild black cherry, rum cherry,
or mountain black cherry, is a woody plant species belonging to the genus Prunus. The species 
is widespread and common in North America and South America.

A mature black cherry can easily be identified in a forest by its very broken, dark grey to 
black bark, which has the appearance of very thick, burnt cornflakes. However, for about 
the first decade or so of its life, the bark is thin, smooth, and striped, resembling that 
of a birch. It can also quickly be identified by its long, shiny leaves resembling those of 
a sourwood, and by an almond-like odor released when a young twig is scratched and held 
close to the nose.Black cherry is closely related to the chokecherry (Prunus virginiana); 
chokecherry, however, is classified as a shrub or small tree and has smaller,less glossy leaves.

Prunus serotina is a pioneer species. In the Midwest, it is seen growing mostly in old fields 
with other sunlight-loving species, such as black walnut, black locust, and hackberry. Gleason 
and Cronquist (1991) describe P. serotina as "[f]ormerly a forest tree, now abundant as a weed-tree 
of roadsides, waste land, and forest-margins."[10] It is a moderately long-lived tree, with 
ages of up to 258 years known, though it is prone to storm damage, with branches breaking 
easily; any decay resulting, however, only progresses slowly. Seed production begins around
10 years of age, but does not become heavy until 30 years and continues up to 100 years. 
Germination rates are high, and the seeds are widely dispersed by birds who eat the fruit 
and then excrete them. Some seeds however may remain in the soil bank and not germinate for 
as long as three years. All Prunus species have hard seeds that benefit from scarification 
to germinate (which in nature is produced by passing through an animal's digestive tract).
P. serotina is also a host of caterpillars of various Lepidoptera (see List of Lepidoptera 
which feed on Prunus). The eastern tent caterpillar defoliates entire groves some springs.
Prunus serotina was widely introduced into Western and Central Europe as an ornamental tree
in the mid 20th century, where it has become locally naturalized.It has acted as an invasive 
species there, negatively affecting forest community biodiversity and regeneration.
Prunus serotina subsp.capuli was cultivated in Central and South America well before European 
contact.