Ginkgo biloba, known as ginkgo, also spelled gingko[3] (both pronounced /ˈɡɪŋkoʊ/), or as 
the maidenhair tree,[4] is the only living species in the division Ginkgophyta, all others 
being extinct. It is found in fossils dating back 270 million years. Native to China,[2] 
the tree is widely cultivated and was introduced early to human history. It has various 
uses in traditional medicine and as a source of food. The genus name Ginkgo is regarded as 
a misspelling of the Japanese gin kyo, "silver apricot".[5]

Scientific classification 
Kingdom:	Plantae
Division:	Ginkgophyta
Class:	Ginkgoopsida
Order:	Ginkgoales
Family:	Ginkgoaceae
Genus:	Ginkgo
Species:	G. biloba
Binomial name
Ginkgo biloba

Ginkgos are large trees, normally reaching a height of 20–35 m (66–115 ft), with some 
specimens in China being over 50 m (160 ft). The tree has an angular crown and long, 
somewhat erratic branches, and is usually deep rooted and resistant to wind and snow damage. 
Young trees are often tall and slender, and sparsely branched; the crown becomes broader as 
the tree ages. During autumn, the leaves turn a bright yellow, then fall, sometimes within 
a short space of time (one to 15 days). A combination of resistance to disease, insect-resistant 
wood and the ability to form aerial roots and sprouts makes ginkgos long-lived, with some 
specimens claimed to be more than 2,500 years old. Ginkgo is a relatively shade-intolerant 
species that (at least in cultivation) grows best in environments that are well-watered and 
well-drained. The species shows a preference for disturbed sites; in the "semiwild" stands 
at Tian Mu Shan, many specimens are found along stream banks, rocky slopes, and cliff edges. 
Accordingly, ginkgo retains a prodigious capacity for vegetative growth. It is capable of 
sprouting from embedded buds near the base of the trunk (lignotubers, or basal chi chi) in 
response to disturbances, such as soil erosion. Old individuals are also capable of producing 
aerial roots on the undersides of large branches in response to disturbances such as crown 
damage; these roots can lead to successful clonal reproduction upon contacting the soil. 
These strategies are evidently important in the persistence of ginkgo; in a survey of the 
"semiwild" stands remaining in Tianmushan, 40% of the specimens surveyed were multistemmed, 
and few saplings were present.

