Eucalyptus /ˌjuːkəˈlɪptəs/[2] L'Heritier 1789[3] is a diverse genus of flowering trees and shrubs 
(including a distinct group with a multiple-stem mallee growth habit) in the myrtle family, 
Myrtaceae. Members of the genus dominate the tree flora of Australia. There are more than 
700 species of eucalyptus and most are native to Australia; a very small number are found 
in adjacent areas of New Guinea and Indonesia. One species, Eucalyptus deglupta, ranges as 
far north as the Philippines. Of the 15 species found outside Australia, just nine are 
exclusively non-Australian. Species of eucalyptus are cultivated widely in the tropical 
and temperate world, including the Americas, Europe, Africa, the Mediterranean Basin, the 
Middle East, China, and the Indian subcontinent. However, the range over which many eucalypts 
can be planted in the temperate zone is constrained by their limited cold tolerance.

Eucalyptus is one of three similar genera that are commonly referred to as "eucalypts", 
the others being Corymbia and Angophora. Many species, though by no means all, are known 
as gum trees because they exude copious kino from any break in the bark (e.g., scribbly gum). 
The generic name is derived from the Greek words ευ (eu) "well" and καλύπτω (kalýpto) "to cover", 
referring to the operculum on the calyx that initially conceals the flower.

Some eucalyptus species have attracted attention from horticulturists, global development 
researchers, and environmentalists because of desirable traits such as being fast-growing 
sources of wood, producing oil that can be used for cleaning and as a natural insecticide, 
or an ability to be used to drain swamps and thereby reduce the risk of malaria. Eucalyptus 
oil finds many uses like in aromatherapy, as a cure for joint pains. Eucalyptus trees show 
allelopathic effects; they release compounds which inhibit other plant species from growing 
nearby. Outside their natural ranges, eucalypts are both lauded for their beneficial economic 
impact on poor populations[6][7]:22 and criticised for being "water-guzzling" aliens,
leading to controversy over their total impact.[9]

On warm days, eucalyptus forests are sometimes shrouded in a smog-like mist of vaporised 
volatile organic compounds (terpenoids); the Australian Blue Mountains take their name from
the haze.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Myrtales
Family:	Myrtaceae
Subfamily:	Myrtoideae
Tribe:	Eucalypteae
Genus:	Eucalyptus
L'Hér.