Celtis occidentalis, commonly known as the common hackberry, is a large deciduous tree native 
to North America. It is also known as the nettletree, sugarberry, beaverwood, northern hackberry, 
and American hackberry.[2] It is a moderately long-lived[2] hardwood[2] with a light-colored 
wood, yellowish gray to light brown with yellow streaks.

The common hackberry is easily distinguished from elms and some other hackberries by its 
cork-like bark with wart-like protuberances. The remarkable bark pattern is even more 
pronounced in younger trees, with the irregularly-spaced ridges resembling long geologic 
palisades of sedimentary [layered] rock formations when viewed edge-wise [cross-section]. 
Coins as large as USA quarters can easily be laid flat against the valleys, which may be 
as deep as an adult human finger.

The leaves are distinctly asymmetrical and coarse-textured. It produces small fruits that 
turn orange-red to dark purple in the autumn, often staying on the trees for several months. 
The common hackberry is easily confused with the sugarberry (Celtis laevigata) and is most 
easily distinguished by range and habitat. The common hackberry also has wider leaves that 
are coarser above than the sugarberry.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Rosales
Family:	Cannabaceae
Genus:	Celtis
Species:	C. occidentalis
Binomial name
Celtis occidentalis

Description
The common hackberry is a medium-sized tree, 9 to 15 metres (30 to 50 ft) in height,[2] 
with a slender trunk. In the best conditions in the southern Mississippi Valley area, it 
can grow to 40 metres (130 ft). It has a handsome round-topped head and pendulous branches. 
It prefers rich moist soil, but will grow on gravelly or rocky hillsides. The roots are 
fibrous and it grows rapidly.[4] In the western part of its range, trees may still grow up 
to 29 m (95 ft).[2] The maximum age attained by hackberry is probably between 150 and 200 
years in ideal conditions.