Corylus colurna (Turkish hazel or Turkish filbert) is a deciduous tree native to southeast 
Europe and southwest Asia, from the Balkans through northern Turkey to northern Iran.

It is the largest species of hazel, reaching 25 m (82 ft) tall,[1] with a stout trunk up to 
1.5 m (4 ft 11 in) in diameter; the crown is slender and conical in young trees, becoming 
broader with age. The bark is pale grey-buff, with a thick, corky texture.

The leaves are deciduous, rounded, 6–15 cm long and 5–13 cm across, softly hairy on both surfaces, 
and with a coarsely double-serrate to shallowly lobed margin. The main limbs are quite small 
in diameter in relationship to the straight trunk, and arise at almost a 90-degree angle. 
Making the tree quite durable to urban conditions and helps maintain a symmetrical crown 
which landscape architects love so much. [2]

The flowers bloom in early spring before the leaves, and are monoecious, with single-sex 
catkins; the male pale yellow and 5–10 cm long, the female very small and largely concealed 
in the buds, with only the bright red 1–3 mm long styles visible. The flowers on female trees 
are not very visible. On male trees, however, the flowers are visible.

The fruit is a nut 1–2 cm long, surrounded by a thick, softly spiny and bristly involucre 
(husk) 3 cm diameter,[1] which encloses all but the tip of the nut; the nuts are borne in 
tight clusters of 3-8 together, with the involucres fused at the base. The fruit matures 
in September and is edible.[3] However, their small size (smaller than common hazel nuts) 
and very hard, thick nut shell (3 mm thick) makes them of little or no commercial value. 
Corylus colurna is however important in commercial hazelnut orchards, as it does not sucker, 
making it the ideal rootstock on which to graft the nut-bearing common hazel cultivars. 
The nut can only be found on female trees. Nut production is irregular and occurs every 
two to three years.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Fagales
Family:	Betulaceae
Genus:	Corylus
Species:	C. colurna
Binomial name
Corylus colurna

