Ilex /ˈaɪlɛks/, or holly,[1] is a genus of 400 to 600 species of flowering plants in the 
family Aquifoliaceae, and the only living genus in that family. The species are evergreen 
or deciduous trees, shrubs, and climbers from tropics to temperate zones worldwide.

The genus Ilex is widespread throughout the temperate and subtropical regions of the world. 
It includes species of trees, shrubs, and climbers, with evergreen or deciduous foliage and 
inconspicuous flowers. Its range was more extended in the Tertiary period and many species 
are adapted to laurel forest habitat. It occurs from sea level to more than 2,000 metres 
(6,600 ft) with high mountain species. It is a genus of small, evergreen trees with smooth, 
glabrous, or pubescent branchlets. The plants are generally slow-growing with some species 
growing to 25 m (82 ft) tall. The type species is the European holly Ilex aquifolium described 
by Linnaeus.[2]

Plants in this genus have simple, alternate glossy leaves, frequently with a spiny leaf margin. 
The inconspicuous flower is greenish white, with four petals. They are generally dioecious, 
with male and female flowers on different plants.

The small fruits of Ilex, although often referred to as berries, are technically drupes.
They range in color from red to brown to black, and rarely green or yellow. The "bones" 
contain up to ten seeds each. Some species produce fruits parthenogenetically, such as the 
cultivar 'Nellie R. Stevens'. The fruits ripen in winter and thus provide winter colour 
contrast between the bright red of the fruits and the glossy green evergreen leaves. Hence 
the cut branches, especially of I. aquifolium, are widely used in Christmas decoration. 
The fruits are generally slightly toxic to humans, and can cause vomiting and diarrhea 
when ingested. However, they are an important food source for birds and other animals, 
which help disperse the seeds. Unfortunately this can have negative impacts as well. Along 
the west coast of North America, from California to British Columbia, English Holly (Ilex aquifolium), 
which is grown commercially, is quickly spreading into native forest habitat, where it thrives 
in shade and crowds out native species. It has been placed on the Washington State Noxious Weed 
Control Board's monitor list, and is a Class C invasive plant in Portland.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
Order:	Aquifoliales
Family:	Aquifoliaceae
DC. ex A.Rich.
Genus:	Ilex
L.