Tilia is a genus of about 30 species of trees native throughout most of the temperate Northern 
Hemisphere. Commonly called lime trees in the British Isles, they are not closely related to 
the lime fruit. Other names include linden, and basswood for the North American species.
The genus occurs in Europe and eastern North America, but the greatest species diversity is 
found in Asia. Under the Cronquist classification system, this genus was placed in the family 
Tiliaceae, but genetic research summarised by the Angiosperm Phylogeny Group has resulted 
in the incorporation of this genus, and of most of the previous family, into the Malvaceae.

Tilia species are mostly large, deciduous trees, reaching typically 20 to 40 metres (65 to 130 ft) 
tall, with oblique-cordate leaves 6 to 20 centimetres (2 1⁄4 to 7 3⁄4 in) across. As with elms, 
the exact number of species is uncertain, as many if not most of the species will hybridise 
readily, both in the wild and in cultivation. Limes are hermaphroditic, having perfect flowers 
with both male and female parts, pollinated by insects.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Malvales
Family:	Malvaceae
Subfamily:	Tilioideae
Genus:	Tilia

Description

The Tilia's sturdy trunk stands like a pillar and the branches divide and subdivide into 
numerous ramifications on which the twigs are fine and thick. In summer, these are profusely 
clothed with large leaves and the result is a dense head of abundant foliage.[6]
The leaves of all the Tilia species are heart-shaped and most are asymmetrical, and the 
tiny fruit, looking like peas, always hang attached to a ribbon-like, greenish-yellow bract, 
whose use seems to be to launch the ripened seed-clusters just a little beyond the parent 
tree. The flowers of the European and American Tilia species are similar, except the American 
bears a petal-like scale among its stamens and the European varieties are devoid of these 
appendages. All of the Tilia species may be propagated by cuttings and grafting, as well 
as by seed. They grow rapidly in rich soil, but are subject to the attack of many insects. 
Tilia is notoriously difficult to propagate from seed unless collected fresh in the fall. 
If allowed to dry, the seeds will go into a deep dormancy and take 18 months to germinate.

In particular, aphids are attracted by the rich supply of sap, and are in turn often "farmed" 
by ants for the production of the sap which the ants collect for their own use, and the 
result can often be a dripping of excess sap onto the lower branches and leaves, and anything 
else below. Cars left under the trees can quickly become coated with a film of the syrup 
("honeydew") thus dropped from higher up. The ant/aphid "farming" process does not appear 
to cause any serious damage to the trees.
