Maclura pomifera, commonly known as the Osage orange, is a small deciduous tree or large 
shrub, typically growing to 8 to 15 metres (30–50 ft) tall. The distinctive fruit, from a 
multiple fruit family, is roughly spherical, bumpy, 8 to 15 centimetres (3–6 in) in diameter, 
and turns a bright yellow-green in the fall. The fruits exude a sticky white latex when cut 
or damaged. Despite the name "Osage orange", it is only very distantly related to the orange,
[3] and is instead a member of the mulberry family, Moraceae.
M. pomifera has been known by a variety of common names in addition to Osage orange, including 
hedge apple, horse apple, bois d'arc, bodark, bow-wood, yellow-wood, mock orange and monkey ball.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Rosales
Family:	Moraceae
Tribe:	Moreae
Genus:	Maclura
Species:	M. pomifera
Binomial name
Maclura pomifera

Description

General habit
Mature trees range from 12 to 18 metres (40–60 ft) tall with short trunks and round-topped 
canopies. The roots are thick, fleshy, and covered with bright orange bark. The tree's mature 
bark is dark, deeply furrowed and scaly.

The wood of M. pomifera is bright orange-yellow with paler yellow sapwood. The wood is heavy, 
hard, strong, and flexible, capable of receiving a fine polish and very durable in contact 
with the ground. It has a specific gravity of 0.7736, or 773.6 kg/m3 (48.29 lb/cu ft).

Leaves and branches
Leaves are arranged alternately in a slender growing shoot 90 to 120 centimetres (3–4 ft) long. 
In form they are simple, a long oval terminating in a slender point. The leaves are 8 to 
13 centimetres (3–5 in) long and 5 to 8 centimetres (2–3 in) wide, and are thick, firm, 
dark green, shining above, and paler green below when full grown. In autumn they turn bright 
yellow. The leaf axils contain formidable spines which when mature are about 2.5 centimetres 
(1 in) long.

Branchlets are at first bright green and pubescent; during their first winter they become 
light brown tinged with orange, and later they become a paler orange brown. Branches contain 
a yellow pith, and are armed with stout, straight, axillary spines. During the winter, the 
branches bear lateral buds that are depressed-globular, partly immersed in the bark, and 
pale chestnut brown in color.

Flowers and fruit
As a dioecious plant, the inconspicuous pistillate (female) and staminate (male) flowers are 
found on different trees. Staminate flowers are pale green, small, and arranged in racemes 
borne on long, slender, drooping peduncles developed from the axils of crowded leaves on 
the spur-like branchlets of the previous year. They feature a hairy, four-lobed calyx; the 
four stamens are inserted opposite the lobes of calyx, on the margin of a thin disk. 
Pistillate flowers are borne in a dense spherical many-flowered head which appears on a 
short stout peduncle from the axils of the current year's growth. Each flower has a hairy 
four-lobed calyx with thick, concave lobes that invest the ovary and enclose the fruit. 
Ovaries are superior, ovate, compressed, green, and crowned by a long slender style covered 
with white stigmatic hairs. The ovule is solitary.

The mature fruit's size and general appearance resembles a large, yellow-green orange, 
10 to 13 centimetres (4–5 in) in diameter, with a roughened and tuberculated surface. 
The compound fruit is a syncarp of numerous small drupes, in which the carpels (ovaries) 
have grown together. Each small drupe is oblong, compressed and rounded; they contain a 
milky juice which oozes when the fruit is damaged or cut. The seeds are oblong. Although 
the flowering is dioecious, the pistillate tree when isolated will still bear large oranges, 
perfect to the sight but lacking the seeds.[8]