A pine is any conifer in the genus Pinus, /ˈpiːnuːs/,[1] of the family Pinaceae. Pinus is 
the sole genus in the subfamily Pinoideae. The Plant List compiled by the Royal Botanic 
Gardens, Kew and Missouri Botanical Garden accepts 126 species names of pines as current, 
together with 35 unresolved species and many more synonyms.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
Division:	Pinophyta
Class:	Pinopsida
Order:	Pinales
Family:	Pinaceae
Genus:	Pinus
L.

Description

Pine trees are evergreen, coniferous resinous trees (or, rarely, shrubs) growing 3–80 m (10–260 ft) 
tall, with the majority of species reaching 15–45 m (50–150 ft) tall. The smallest are Siberian 
dwarf pine and Potosi pinyon, and the tallest is a 81.79 m (268.35 ft) tall ponderosa pine 
located in southern Oregon's Rogue River-Siskiyou National Forest.[6]


Bark chips
The bark of most pines is thick and scaly, but some species have thin, flaky bark. The branches 
are produced in regular "pseudo whorls", actually a very tight spiral but appearing like a 
ring of branches arising from the same point. Many pines are uninodal, producing just one 
such whorl of branches each year, from buds at the tip of the year's new shoot, but others 
are multinodal, producing two or more whorls of branches per year. The spiral growth of 
branches, needles, and cone scales are arranged in Fibonacci number ratios.[citation needed] 
The new spring shoots are sometimes called "candles"; they are covered in brown or whitish 
bud scales and point upward at first, then later turn green and spread outward. These "candles" 
offer foresters a means to evaluate fertility of the soil and vigour of the trees.

Pines are long-lived, and typically reach ages of 100–1,000 years, some even more. The longest-lived 
is the Great Basin bristlecone pine, Pinus longaeva. One individual of this species, dubbed 
"Methuselah", is one of the world's oldest living organisms at around 4,600 years old. This 
tree can be found in the White Mountains of California.[7] An older tree, now cut down, was 
dated at 4,900 years old. It was discovered in a grove beneath Wheeler Peak and it is now 
known as "Prometheus" after the Greek immortal.[citation needed]

