Platanus /ˈplætənəs/[1] is a genus comprising a small number of tree species native to the 
Northern Hemisphere. They are the sole living members of the family Platanaceae.
All members of Platanus are tall, reaching 30–50 m (98–164 ft) in height. All except for 
P. kerrii are deciduous, and most are found in riparian or other wetland habitats in the 
wild, though proving drought-tolerant in cultivation. The hybrid London plane has proved 
particularly tolerant of urban conditions.

They are often known in English as planes or plane trees. Some North American species are 
called sycamores (especially Platanus occidentalis[2]), although the term sycamore also 
refers to the fig Ficus sycomorus, the plant originally so named, and to the Sycamore Maple 
Acer pseudoplatanus.

Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
Order:	Proteales
Family:	Platanaceae
Genus:	Platanus

The flowers are reduced and are borne in balls (globose heads); 3–7 hairy sepals may be fused 
at the base, and the petals are 3–7 and are spatulate. Male and female flowers are separate, 
but borne on the same plant (monoecious). The number of heads in one cluster (inflorescence) 
is indicative of the species (see table below). The male flower has 3–8 stamens; the female 
has a superior ovary with 3–7 carpels. Plane trees are wind-pollinated. Male flower-heads 
fall off after shedding their pollen.

After being pollinated, the female flowers become achenes that form an aggregate ball. The 
fruit is a multiple of achenes (plant systematics, Simpson M. G., 2006). Typically, the core 
of the ball is 1 cm in diameter and is covered with a net of mesh 1 mm, which can be peeled 
off. The ball is 2.5–4 cm in diameter and contains several hundred achenes, each of which 
has a single seed and is conical, with the point attached downward to the net at the surface 
of the ball. There is also a tuft of many thin stiff yellow-green bristle fibers attached 
to the base of each achene. These bristles help in wind dispersion of the fruits as in the 
dandelion.

The leaves are simple and alternate. In the subgenus Platanus they have a palmate outline. 
The base of the leaf stalk (petiole) is enlarged and completely wraps around the young stem 
bud in its axil. The axillary bud is exposed only after the leaf falls off.

The mature bark peels off or exfoliates easily in irregularly shaped patches, producing a 
mottled, scaly appearance. On old trunks, bark may not flake off, but thickens and cracks 
instead.