Albizia saman,Rain tree (sometimes treated under the obsolete name Samanea saman) is a 
species of flowering tree in the pea family, Fabaceae, that is native to the Neotropics. 
Its range extends from Mexico south to Peru and Brazil, but it has been widely introduced 
to South and Southeast Asia, as well as the Pacific Islands, including Hawaii. Common names 
include saman, rain tree and monkeypod (see also below). It is often placed in the genus 
Samanea, which by yet other authors is subsumed in Albizia entirely.


Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Fabales
Family:	Fabaceae
Genus:	Albizia
Species:	A. saman
Binomial name
Albizia saman

Description:

Saman is a wide-canopied tree with a large symmetrical crown. It usually reaches a height 
of 25 m (82 ft) and a diameter of 40 m. The leaves fold in rainy weather and in the evening, 
hence the name "rain tree" and "five o'clock tree" (Pukul Lima) in Malay. Several lineages 
of this tree are available, e.g., with reddish pink and creamish golden colored flowers.
During his 1799–1804 travels in the Americas, Alexander von Humboldt encountered a giant 
saman tree near Maracay, Venezuela. He measured the circumference of the parasol-shaped 
crown at 576 ft (about 180.8 m[3]), its diameter was around 190 ft (about 59.6 m), on a 
trunk at 9 ft (about 2.8 m) in diameter and reaching just 60 ft (nearly 19 m) in height. 
Humboldt mentioned the tree was reported to have changed little since the Spanish colonization 
of Venezuela; he estimated it to be as old as the famous Canary Islands dragon tree 
(Dracaena draco) of Icod de los Vinos on Tenerife.

The tree, called Samán de Güere (transcribed Zamang del Guayre by von Humboldt) still stands 
today, and is a Venezuelan national treasure. Just like the dragon tree on Tenerife, the age 
of the saman in Venezuela is rather indeterminate. As von Humboldt's report makes clear, 
according to local tradition, it would be older than 500 years today, which is rather 
outstanding by the genus' standards. It is certain, however, the tree is quite more than 
200 years old today, but it is one exceptional individual; even the well-learned von Humboldt 
could not believe it was actually the same species as the saman trees he knew from the 
greenhouses at Schönbrunn Castle.

Large branches of the tree tend to break off, particularly during rainstorms. This can be 
hazardous as the tree is very commonly used for avenue plantation.

