Cladrastis kentukea, the Kentucky yellowwood or American yellowwood (syn. C. lutea, C. tinctoria), 
is a species of Cladrastis native to the Southeastern United States, with a restricted range 
from western North Carolina west to eastern Oklahoma, and from southern Missouri and Indiana 
south to central Alabama. Also the tree is sometimes called Virgilia.

Cladrastis kentukea is a small to medium-sized deciduous tree typically growing 10–15 metres 
(33–49 ft) tall, exceptionally to 27 metres (89 ft) tall, with a broad, rounded crown and 
smooth gray bark. The leaves are compound pinnate, 20-30 cm long, with 5-11 (mostly 7-9) 
alternately arranged leaflets, each leaflet broad ovate with an acute apex, 6-13 cm long 
and 3-7 cm broad, with an entire margin and a thinly to densely hairy underside. In the fall, 
the leaves turn a mix of yellow, gold, and orange.

The flowers are fragrant, white, produced in Wisteria-like racemes 15-30 cm long. Flowering 
is in early summer (June in its native region), and is variable from year to year, with 
heavy flowering every second or third year. The fruit is a pod 5-8 cm long, containing 2-6 seeds.

Bark: Smooth gray, or light brown. Branchlets at first downy, but soon become smooth, light 
yellowish green; later red brown, finally dark brown.
Wood: Yellow to pale brown; heavy, hard, close-grained and strong. Sp. gr., 0.6278; 
weight of cu. ft., 39.12 lbs.
Winter buds: Four in a group, making a tiny cone and inclosed in the hollow base of the petiole.
Leaves: Alternate, pinnately compound, eight to twelve inches long, main stem stout, enlarged at base. 
Leaflets seven to eleven, broadly oval, three to four inches long. Wedge-shaped at base, entire, 
acute, terminal leaflets rhomboid-ovate. Feather-veined, midrib and primary veins prominent, 
grooved above, light yellow beneath. They come out the bud pale green, downy; when full grown 
are dark green above, pale beneath. In autumn they turn a bright clear yellow.
Flowers: June. Perfect, papilionaceous, white, borne in drooping terminal panicles twelve to 
fourteen inches long, five to six inches broad, slightly fragrant.



Scientific classification
Kingdom:	Plantae
(unranked):	Angiosperms
(unranked):	Eudicots
(unranked):	Rosids
Order:	Fabales
Family:	Fabaceae
Genus:	Cladrastis
Species:	C. kentukea
Binomial name
Cladrastis kentukea
(Dum.Cours.) Rudd (1971)